--- Release 3.0.0.2382 ---

Druid 

fixed - Lowbie - now better handles transition at point it learns Cat Form


Hunter

fixed - All Specs - an errant message displayed in debug mode about pet being dead fixed

change- All Specs - default for Use Disengage settings now true.  Only effects new users or new installations



--- Release 3.0.0.2373  ---

General

fixed - Melee movement towards neutral mobs or while stealthed

fixed - Berserking, Blood Fury, and Lifeblood only cast if current target in range to avoid wasted casts

*new* - Melee Dismount Range setting.  Melee characters mounted when Pull is received, will continue riding to this range until dismounting.


Death Knight

fixed - All Specs - Disable AOE HotKey is now recognized for DnD, Howling Blast, and Blood Boil even if those spells were used in a single target rotation

fixed - Frost - if Disable AOE active, Icy Touch will be cast in place of Howling Blast

*new* - All Specs - setting to choose Presence.  Auto: Singular chooses, None: User has full control and can switch in combat


Druid 

*new* - All Specs - a self-heal section of settings has been added to control health %% that Rejuvenation, Healing Touch, etc. are cast at when Solo or PVP for non-healer.

*new* - Feral - improved debug logging to assist users with errors.  This is enabled by Class Config -> Debug Logging = true

fixed - Feral/Guardian - spell CanCast issue where powertype of spell is not available.  This would interfere at times with cast of self-heals

*new* - Balance - added Moon Beast Rejuvenation and Moon Beast Healing Touch so health %'s for casting those treated seperately from values when not glyphed

*new* - Feral - added Predatory Swiftness Healing Touch health %


Hunter

*new* - Use Misdirection in Instances setting, defaults to the true.  Setting to false prevents all Misdirection casts in Instance

change- framework for context specific pets added.  Will become fully functional when Pet Number issue in stable release of HB fixed


Rogue

change- All Specs - will now move behind target in combat also, as long as it is stunned or not targeting Rogue

fixed - All Specs - Sprint will only be used if Use Sprint setting is enabled


Shaman

*new* - Enhancement - setting to avoid casting Nature spells when Maelstrom Weapon has procced.  Intended for use by those doing manual assist in PVP

fixed - All Specs - Ancestral Guidance now correctly treated as being off-GCD

fixed - All Specs - Movement Buff (use of Ghost Wolf when out of combat) Will no longer spam messages in debug when already in Ghost Wolf.  

fixed - All Specs - Movement Buff (use of Ghost Wolf when out of combat) will also cast for characters that have not learned Apprentice Riding Skill yet

*new* - All Specs - added Self-Heal section with settings to control when healing spells cast while Solo and PVP

fixed - All Specs - no longer tries to cast Wind Shear if not facing target






*new* ---- Release 3.0.0.2341 ---

General




--- Release 3.0.0.2341 ---

General

fixed - bug in target validation logic that affected some quests and clearing BotPoi

change- movement / stop moving logic revised for all classes and specializations.  should eliminate occurrences of casters running into melee or healers running to tank

change- renamed internally used TreeHook names to prefix with 'Singular.'  This will affect Singular customizations which were referencing hooks by name.

change- Stoneform racial now cast when fighting 3+ mobs or mob with double max health is attacking you in addition to previous behavior of casting when bleeds detected

*new* - setting and support for Glove enchant usage

change- heal targets limited to those within 40 yds when movement is disabled

change- will stop movement after leaving a battleground to 


Death Knight

change- All Specs - previously was casting Chains of Ice during Pull if Death Grip on cooldown. now uses Chains of Ice only if they are a player or moving away from you


Mage

*new* - new Class Specific setting which allows user to choose armor spell cast or allow to be automatically selected

change- Frozen Orb in Normal Context now only cast if it won't agro neutral mobs in area not already in combat

change- Lowbie spell priority revised to use Fire Blast on cooldown rather than as finisher

change- additional check in Frost Nova cast for Lowbie's to avoid wasting


Priest

fixed - Holy - revision to heal target selection

fixed - Shadow - Halo check for mobs not in combat corrected


Rogue

*new* - All Specs - pre- and post- pick pocket wait time setting to provide customization for users encountering latency issues relative to the use of pick pocket. the pre-pick pocket delay helps with ensuring the Rogue is a full stop.  The post-pick pocket delay gives allows additional time for the Auto Loot to occur before casting attacks on the enemy (which has been reported as needed in cases where mobs are one shot.)  These values should be left at their default settings unless you encounter a problem with this feature.

*new* - All specs - option to allow Pick Pocket cast in combat (if Stealth still active and current target not pick pocketed yet.)  Default is false.

change- All Specs - after casting pick pocket, the mob will temporarily be blacklisted (as a node, not for combat) to prevent subsequent casts

change- All Specs - now detects pick pocket errors and will temporarily blacklist mob from further pick pocket attempts

fixed - All Specs - exception occurring for some rogue users when searching for locked boxes

*new* - All Specs - support for Cloak and Dagger. will now cast Ambush, Garrrote, or Cheap Shot at range

*new* - All Specs - support for Shuriken Toss talent

change- All Specs - casting Recuperate with unused combo points on corpse sometimes failed even though available points exist.  limited to trying once every 3 seconds at most to reduce cast spam

change- All Specs - when Pulling will use Sprint or ranged abilities if gap closer not available and mob is moving away and faster than character


Shaman

fixed - All Specs - error occurring when no current target active and hexable mob nearby

fixed - Restoration - revision to heal target selection

fixed - Elemental - in Instances will cast Ascendance on cooldown on bosses only

fixed - Lowbie - revised use of Earth Shock in spell priority to favor Lightning Bolt on mobs still at range

fixed - Restoration - issue with selecting Earth Shield target when tank dies

change- Restoration - diagnostic info to cover both dps and heal targets

*new* - Restoration - staying within range of tank is highest priority when movement not disabled


Warlock

fixed - Affliction - will now cast Haunt more frequently

fixed - All Specs - setting for Drain Life % was being displayed as Health Funnel %

change- All Specs - lowered default Drain Life % from 60 to 20

change- All Specs - fixed bug where banish was cast on world elite


Warrior

fixed - All Specs - will no longer cast Charge, Heroic Leap, or Heroic Throw in Combat immediately after one of these was cast in Pull Behavior

change- Fury - when Solo, made top-most priority in Single target situation Raging Blow when at 2 stacks or buff about fall off

*new* - Fury - support for Die by the Sword, Demoralizing Banner, Skull Banner, Avatar, Bloodbath, Storm Bolt, and Rallying Cry when Solo or Battlegrounds

change- Fury - addition of diagnostic logging of character status when Debug enabled

fixed - Fury - previously did not include support for Charge while in combat.  will now use closing abilities when switching to another target even while in combat

*new* - Arms - support for Enraged Regeneration below 60% health.  



--- Release 3.0.0.2275 ---

General

fixed - Issue encountered while calculating gear score prior to the item info for them being available

change- throttled following message to reduce spamming when Combat Routine is called repeatedly with nothing to kill or heal: "Current target invalid.  No other targets available"

change- time since last call to combat routine reset each time Start button is pressed


Mage

fixed - Frost - issue with not casting spells after Pull until reaching Level 12 and learning Frostbolt


Priest

fixed - All Specs - Use Speed Buff setting was being ignored (note: Use Speed Buff does not prevent use of Mount.  Speed Buffs are cast by Singular only at the point when BotBase has decided to run to the next location rather than mounting.)


Warlock

change- All Specs - no longer uses Banish in Battlegrounds


Warrior




--- Release 3.0.0.2265 ---

General

change- friendly target names will now include their role (if any) and all targets have a unique identifier

*new* - debugging mode only: will monitor how long since last call to combat routine and post to log if > 4 seconds

fixed - while Questing botbase is active, Singular will disable all behaviors when in a quest vehicle

*new* - Class Config form will resize based upon size of screen when displayed

*new* - spell casting will now log more detail when Debug Logging Spell.CanCast is true.


Druid 

fixed - Balance - detonate mushroom was cast too quickly after setting mushrooms when trying to kite melee enemies

change- Feral / Guardian / Balance - prior to learning Healing Touch, when entering rest behavior and health below desired level, will cast Rejuvenation

fixed - Feral - Wild Charge was being reported by HB/WOW as not being a usable spell.  workaround in place

*new* - Feral - Prowl Always option.  Will cast prowl early allowing druid to spend most of time in stealth 

fixed - Feral - was not attacking anything that isn't a boss in Instances

fixed - Feral - will correctly cast Ferocious Bite on targets dying soon (seconds of life expectancy <= # combo points)

change- Feral - diagnostic logging includes additional detail on  whether in melee range

change- Feral - will no longer cast AoE abilities in PVP and focuses solely on burst


Paladin

fixed - Lowbie/Holy - solo combat behaviors were not taking toon all the way into melee range


Rogue

*new* - All Specs - Stealth Always setting will allow rogue to remain stealthed a majority of the time on foot

fixed - All Specs - infrequent bug where stealth was cast when not needed, taking rogue out of stealth

fixed - All Specs - will not use Pick Lock while stealthed

fixed - All Specs - Pick Lock and Open Box will now attempt each lockbox a maximum of one time in thirty seconds 


Shaman

fixed - Resto - movement with DungeonBuddy now smoother.  Prioritizes staying with tank above all else

fixed - All Specs - Stormlash Totem cast now checks if another Stormlast Totem already exists


Warrior

fixed - Lowbie - problem with moving into melee range at levels 1 - 9

*new* - Arms - enhanced diagnostic output when Debug Logging set to true

 



--- Release 3.0.0.2223 ---

General

fixed - Singular recognizes when the user or a component changes the current target and writes to log.  Fixed a bug in this code which would cause false (null) reports

fixed - PetManager was not handling detecting situation where toon dismounted and waiting for auto-summon of pet to occur

fixed - Class Config form -> Hotkeys tab was not formatted properly when form resized

fixed - Targeting issue where toon would get stuck looking for valid target when an NPC with a Pet was killed but Pet doesn't die

fixed - Targeting a Pet causese walking the chain of ownership to find owning player/npc and switches to it.  Previously did this without checking if parent was blacklisted or dead

*new* - user setting in Class Config allowing users to disable message written to Chat Frame of WOW Client.  Default is to write messages when combat/movement/aoe is toggled via hotkey

fixed - error occurring sometimes when accessing the Class Config form while HonorBuddy was running

Druid

fixed - All Specs - issue with Faerie Fire spam when the Faerie Swarm talent is selected


Rogue

fixed - Assassination - now correctly moves behind target during Pull

fixed - Subtlety - now correctly moves behind target during Pull

change- Subtlety - support for Premeditation added.  Removed conditional cast of Sinister Strike since isn't needed and fired inappropriately at times


Warlock

fixed - Affliction - now correctly sends Pet after targets based upon user settings

fixed - Affliction - Soulburn cast for Seed of Corruption correctly handled.  Was at times leaving Soulburn active and not casting Seed

fixed - All Specs - will no longer Summon Pet while mounted (which was forcing a dismount at times)

*new* - All Specs - cast of Unending Breath when swimming

 

--- Release 3.0.0.2187 ---

General

fixed - check code preventing combat with blacklisted mob attacking player


--- Release 3.0.0.2182 ---

General

*new* - GUI - Debug tab now has Targetlist visible for seeing the list of targets from the BotBase

fixed - GUI - setting descriptions were not being displayed

*new* - GUI - added LOGMARK button.  Uses can click this to output a distinctive entry to the log file making it easy to reference when something happened if you need to post an issue

fixed - Targeting - several issues associated with validating and selecting a new target quickly while in combat


Druid

*new* - Feral - now casts Survival Instincts based upon config setting


Hunter

fixed - All Specs - was not casting Misdirection on pet when solo


Monk

*new* - Brewmaster - now casts Touch of Death in all contexts if able


Paladin

fixed - Retribution - bug causing Paladin to stop fighting when Bloodlust, Heroism, Ancient Hysteria, or Time Warp is cast in an instance.


Priest

change- All Specs - avoidance behavior also enabled when fighting player in any context

change- Shadow - Psychic Scream also cast when fighting player in any context

fixed - Shadow - Vampiric Embrace now references correct target in estimating time to death.  previously would always cast if player health < 65%


Rogue

fixed - All Specs - Redirect was in some circumstances (mostly PVP) being cast upon player that already had combo pts, resulting in an fail cast error message spam fest.

change- All Specs - AOE abilities disabled in Battlegrounds and Arena.  will use single target abilities only


--- Release 3.0.0.2150 ---

General

*new* - Extensive rewrite to Holy Priest support.  See the Priest section for info.

change- Class Config form (settings GUI) now dynamically sizes.  The size of the form and the current tab displayed is remembered.

*new* - Solo Pet Tanking.  While solo, classes with a Pet will send that pet to agro targets attacking the player, as long as the pets current target is not the player.  This will increase survivability in multi-mob fights especially at lower levels.  A setting in Class Config named Solo Pet Tanking can be set to false if you prefer the Pet remain on your current target.  This applies to solo (questing/grinding) only.  In PVP and Instances, the Pet will always attack players current target.

fixed - problem with list of Bosses not initiliazing

change- Singular no longer prevents Combat or other behaviors when on transports.  This was interfering with some DungeonBuddy scripts.  The primary place this would be needed is during questing and that should now be handled by Quest Behaviors if needed

change- Heal settings are output to long once per context change.  previously output for each behavior which referenced them creating setting spam in log in some cases.  Currently only noticeable with Shaman and Holy Priests

change- Auto Attack started only for Melee classes/specs.  This has been requested numerous times, so if you encounter any issues be certain to attach a complete debug log with your post

fixed - Targeting. Singular does not target often, but will validate the current target and switch if the Bot indicates it should.  Some minor refinements as well as a bug fix for some cases where Questing bot had a BotPOI that was different than the Targeting.FirstUnit it prioritized

fixed - workaround for some issues where HonorBuddy SpellManager.canCast() was indicating false for certain spells.

fixed - Evade mobs issue (character stops fighting back.)  Mobs in WOW have begin having single Evade spell misses without being evade bugged, causing issues with Combat Routines that check for Evade bugged mobs.  Singular will now require a minimum number of evade misses on the same NPC before it will be treated as evade bugged.


Hunter

change- All Specs - Misdirection will only be cast as part of Pull Buffs in Instances.  If the BotBase in use does not call the Pull Buffs behavior (Raidbot for example) you will need to cast Misdirection manually if needed or request a change to the BotBase.

fixed - All Specs - Revive Pet should now work.  Additional logging added in this area, so be sure to attach a complete log file if you continue to have a problem

*new* - All Specs - support for Heart of the Phoenix as instant Revive for Tenacity Pets

*new* - All Specs - support for Bullheaded and Last Stand pet abilities

change- All Specs - will no longer cast stun or slow abilities prior to Disengage if the Narrow Escape talent is taken (since that does it for you.)


Shaman

change- Elemental - additional log info to help identify issue where character stops fighting 


Mage

*new* - All Specs - should now summon refreshment table during last 15 seconds of Battleground Preparation phase (prior to start.) Previously only summoned table if the Mage needed food.


Monk

fixed - Mistweaver - should now remain in Stance of Wise Serpent at all times

change- Mistweaver - will consume Mana Tea during combat in all contexts.  Previously was only during Rest


Paladin

change- Retribution - in Normal and Battleground contexts, will cast Guardian of Ancient Kings if 4 or more mobs or current target will live more than 30 seconds.  Previously only cast for AOE situations


Priest

*new* - Holy - rewrite of Instance and Raid healing logic

*new* - Holy - heal settings now appear on the Group Healing tab of Class Config.  Separate values for each healing context are kept (Battlegrounds, Instances, and Raids)

change- All Specs - Shadowfiend and Mindbender now share the same mana % setting in Class Config.  Default increased from 50% to 75% and is only cast if current target expected to live longer than 15 seconds


Rogue

*new* - All Specs - added setting Fan of Knives Count to allow user to control number of mobs required for FoK to cast

fixed - Combat - when Blade Flurry is active will favor using Eviscerate over Rupture as finisher

*new* - All Specs - support for Shadow Blades


Warlock

fixed - Demonology - Doom check for target life expectancy increased from 30 seconds to 45, as on machines with lag we were still casting Doom on characters it would never tick on

fixed - All Specs - Pet summoning logic should be smoother. Will now wait slightly longer after Dismount, will summon more quickly if dies during Combat, and will cancel a summon in progress if live pet appears during Summon Pet cast


--- Release 3.0.0.2076 ---

General

change- minor maintenance



--- Release 3.0.0.2073 ---

General

*new* - Use Instance Behaviors while Solo option on the Debugging tab.  This setting is NOT SAVED since it leads to unexpected results, but allows you to temporarily override the behaviors used for testing combat on a training dummy.  If you want to evaluate DPS, you need to enable this option since without it you are using Questing behaviors which save cooldowns, etc for AoE and PVP encounters

fixed - logic for AoE Interrupts Arcane Torrent and War Stomp to prevent use if it would agro neutral mobs or break crowd control

fixed - an issue with Buff support which interfered with some classes casting of cooldown


Druid

change- Feral/Guardian - will not suppress healing which would cause leaving form if you are in an Instance/Raid

change- Feral - worked around bug in HonorBuddy which prevented casting Savage Roar and Thrash

*new* - Feral - setting added to control select instance spell priority to use from two options


Shaman

fixed - Restoration - a couple remaining issues with healing spell selection

change- Restoration - suppression of some healing spells when not in combat (Healing Rain, Chain Heal, etc.)

change- Restoration - improved selection of Healing Rain target


Warlock

*new* - All - config setting to control health % Drain Life is cast at



--- Release 3.0.0.2048 ---

General

change- Singular version # displayed as part of Combat Routine name in Combat Routine selection window.

*new* - Healing Targets may now include raid member Pets. Pets will also be considered when evaluating AoE heals

*new* - Friendly NPC's which are either the Current Target or Focus Target will now be included in the list of possible heal targets.  This allows healing of NPCs in encounters that require that strategy

fixed - Arcane Torrent racial was being cast without range check.  now casts only if interrupting target within 8 yds

fixed - Arcane Torrent and War Stomp are no longer cast if a crowd controlled enemy exists in AoE range

change- standardized all "Casting ... on ...." messages.  Now include distance and approximate current health %

change- Disable All Targeting setting changed to Targeting by Singular.  this accepts several values, with the default being Auto.  This setting will leave targeting enabled unless running under DungeonBuddy, LazyRaider, or Raid Bot

fixed - no longer buffs out of combat when solo and waiting for invite while running either DUngeonBuddy or BGBuddy

change- CastOnGround behavior used for spells cast on a ground location rather than directly on npc/player now accepts a string to describe the target which is output to log


Druid 

fixed - Feral - will no longer cast Cat Form while in aquatic form


Mage

fixed - Frost - was incorrectly casting Ice Lance during AoE situation without Fingers of Frost proc

fixed - All - Time Warp was cast at times even when Class Config setting was off


Priest

change - Lowbie - changed to 28y pull distance and forcing stop at anything closer than 25y

fixed - All - was ignoring the Use Speed Buff setting and always casting PW:S or Angelic Feather when running out of combat


Rogue 

fixed - All - was casting opener too quickly after moving behind target (generated facing errors)

fixed - Combat - prior to learning Recuperate, will now cast Eviscerate if # of seconds target estimated to die is <= # combo points

change- All - Fan of Knives will not be cast while Solo unless 3+ mobs (was previously 2)

fixed - All - Fan of Knives no longer cast if AoE has been turned off

change- All - when Solo and Pulling a Neutral mob, will wait to stealth until just before attack rather than at a distance allowing slightly faster movement to those mobs that do not aggro

fixed - All - Pick Pocket will now stop movement briefly prior to casting spell to avoid large number of missed casts

fixed - All - was checking Priest Use Speed Buff setting before using Blazing Speed.  corrected to reference new Rogue specific setting


Shaman

change- Elemental - spell priority for Battlegrounds changed to burst immediately 7 stacks of lightning shield and both shocks and elemental blast off cooldown

fixed - Elemental - was never invoking burst routine if user had not specced for Elemental Blast

*new* - Restoration - added setting for Mana Tide Totem %

fixed - All Specs - bug which was preventing totems from being cast. This could affect all totems, but was most recently reported for Mana Tide

change- Restoration - Riptide will now only be rolled on Tanks

*new* - Restoration - setting for minimum # of Chain Heal targets

*new* - Restoration - setting for minimum # of Healing Rain targets

*new* - Restoration - setting for minimum # of heal targets for Ascendance

change- Restoration - spell priority is Save the Group spells, then AoE spells, then Single target. previously it was was controller entirely by Health %

fixed - Elemental / Enhancement - off healing logic for use of Ancestral Swiftness in Oh SHoot Heal

*new* - Restoration - support for Purify Spirit to cleanse team mates.  Blacklist of spells that should not be cleansed is currently internal and should be  configurable in next release.  Disable Cleansing in Class Config if you encounter issues with dispel of an aura that should not be dispellee due to encounter mechanics

change- Restoration - when a Chain Heal target is selected, will cast Riptide on that target first if not currently buffed

change- Restoration - priority of Chain Heal changed to top-most and Healing Rain to next highest, regardless of health %

change- Restoration - Raid default Health %'s used for healing Raids.  should provide improved heal #'s with greater mana efficiency.

change- Restoration - Instance default Health %'s used for healing Instances.  should cast Healing Rain / Chain Heal much less frequently

change- Restoration - Battleground default Health %'s used for healing all PVP.  will not cast Greater Healing Wave and focuses on instants and burst heals where possible

fixed - Restoration - cancel direct heal casts in progress if targets health goes above maximum of Healing Wave, Greater Healing Wave, Healing Surge, and Ignore Mobs Above health % values.  Typically this should be the Ignore Mobs Above Health % value which defaults to 95%.  this should improve mana conservation and over healing #'s


Warrior

change- All - will now additionally cast Berserker Rage when Sapped

fixed - All - no longer casts any combination of Charge, Heroic Leap, or Heroic Throw one after the other

*new* - Arms - separate Battlegrounds spell priority.  Be certain to include log file on any feedback

*new* - Arms - two different Instance spell priority added for 5.2, selectable by config setting.  ANY FEEDBACK ON THIS MUST INCLUDE LOG FILE


--- Release 3.0.0.1981 ---

General

fixed - restored use of trinkets configured for Crowd Control

change- Evade bugged mob handler will now target any mob in the Bot targetlist that isn't blacklisted so combat routine mechanics will move out of current evade situation


Druid

fixed - Feral - when entering combat while mining, would pre-buff Rejuvenation since in Normal form.  Changed to only buff if Health % < 95

fixed - Feral - Swipe spam.  Had introduced a bug with 5.2 work that caused it to be in AOE mode if more than one mob within 40 yds rather than 8yds


Mage

fixed - All - cast of Frost Armor/Mage Armor/Frost Armor.


Paladin

change- Retribution - Avenging Wrath is now controlled by the same Class Config setting used to control Holy Avenger and GotAK


Rogue

fixed - All - AoE check for crowd controlled mobs was AoE abilities to be toggled on/off if Gouge or another stun was used.  Now correctly handles when it is current target that is stunned


--- Release 3.0.0.1967 ---

General

change- Updates made for 5.2 marked below

fixed - Rest behavior was blocked if mounted.  Fixed so only blocked if flying

*new* - New Raid healing context (additional set of Heal Spell %.)  Currently setup only for Shaman.  See the Group Healing tab in Class Config

change- Correctly indicates the name and level of difficulty of instances/raids

fixed - Kiting logic bug.  If calculated kite distance was larger than expected kiting was cancelled immediately, creating message spam and interfering with spell priority

change- Evade bugged mob logic. Will halt all attacks on blacklisted mobs.  If character stays at evade mob, the BotBase in use must be updated to not attack blacklisted mobs.

*new* - Automatic support for using "cast while moving" abilities.  New option in Class Config to disable if you prefer manual control of Spiritwalker's Grace, Ice Floes, etc.  Will support all buffs of this type including Molten Feather

change- Heal Target setting to Ignore Players above a health % is only used out of combat.  While in combat, whatever values are present in your Class Specific setup are used



Death Knight

change- All - long cooldowns now check time to death estimate on current target before casting

change- Frost - [5.2] slight change to Instance spell priority due to spell changes

		
Druid
		
change- Balance	- [5.2] removed Use Starfall setting since it no longer strike targets that are affected by crowd control effects or those you aren't already in combat with

fixed - Balance - DoTs refreshed with 2 seconds left.  in some circumstances was allowing to expire first

fixed - Feral - rework of Instance spell priority 

*new* - Feral - will Cyclone nearby enemy if Predatory Swiftness up and enemy is casting and not the current target

change- Guardian - added Bear Hug for Solo and Battleground priorities and not being targeted by any enemy other than current target

		
Hunter
		
change- All - [5.2] No longer casts Hunter's Mark.  Depends upon Arcane Shot, Kill Command, Explosive Shot and Chimera Shot to apply now


Mage
	
change- All - [5.2] support for Glyph of Fire Blast no longer required for spreading DoT

change- All - [5.2] Scorch removed from Arcane spell priority as its now a Fire Specialization spell
				
		
Monk

*new* - Windwalker/Brewmaster - [5.2] support for Nimble Brew when stunned/feared

*new* - All - [5.2] call to Dampen Harm can now be used while stunned

*new* - All - [5.2] Support for Ring of Peace 	

*new* - All - added support for Tiger's Lust when rooted

change- Windwalker - [5.2] Chi no longer required for Touch of Karma	

change- Windwalker - Symbiosis gained Bear Hug only cast if no enemies other than your target are targeting you

		
		
Priest
		
change- Holy/Disc - [5.2] revised recognition of Power Word: Solace 
			
change - Holy - [5.2] Glyph of Desperation removed and Guardian Spirit can always be cast while stunned

change - Discipline - [5.2] Glyph of Desperation removed and Pain Suppression can always be cast while stunned


Rogue
		
change- All - [5.2] No longer waits to cast Preparation when Cloak of Shadows on cooldown.

*new* - All - [5.2] New Level 90 Talent: Marked for Death
			
*new* - All - [5.2] New Level 60 Talent: Cloak and Dagger
			
change- All - [5.2] Deadly Throw now cast for interrupt at 3, 4 and 5 combo points

change- All - Vanish is no longer cast while questing to avoid losing summoned quest mobs when low in health.


Shaman		

*new* - All - option in settings to control use of Weapon Imbues to allow you to disable Windfury Weapon, etc. while temporary enchants support is broken in HonorBuddy
		
*new* - Elemental - [5.2] uses Shamanistic Rage when stunned or for mana return

fixed - Elemental - no longer casts Thunderstorm when stunned unless enemies within 8 yards

change- All Specs - setting for Astral Shift health % added.  Will always cast if in stressful situation

change- Elemental - Battleground spell priority changed to build up stacks of Lightning Shield and sustained pressure by rolling Flame Shocks in preparation for a burst phase

change- Restoration - revision to default health %'s

change- Restoration - lightened requirements for Healing Rain and Chain Heal so possible to compete for heals in LFR if configured


Warlock
		
change- All - [5.2] Blood Fear removed
		
*new* - All - [5.2] support for Blood Horror when attacked by melee

change- All - [5.2] removed Imp ability Blood Pact from Party Buff support

change- All - [5.2] added Stamina buff to Dark Intent Party Buff support

change- All - [5.2] removed Kil'jaeden's Cunning cast

change- All - [5.2] added Whiplash spell gained via Grimoire of Sacrifice 

change- All - added Ember Tap if health less than 80
		

Warrior
		
change- Prot - [5.2] Removed Deadly Calm 

*new* - All - [5.2] Glyph of Incite now activates off Demoralizing Shout



--- Release 3.0.0.1938 ---

General

fixed - fix a lot of users were looking for!!!!  internal issue causing buffs not to be applied ( Arcane Intelligence, Mark of the Wild, etc. etc. etc.)  There were other behaviors implicated too, but this was the most obvious one.  This was an issue which impacted classes across the board and was due to a change made in a recent prior release.

change- check for Loss of Control behavior in Rest in case initial attack out of combat is a stun, fear, etc

*new* - Questing Pull Distance Override setting added for Ranged specs.  Kick's profiles change the Pull Distance setting it to 25 yards for most combat, which gives less distance for ranged classes to kill a mob before it reaches melee range.  Only during Questing, if the Pull Distance is set to 25 (the default for the setting) it will force it to 40 yards for ranged classes.

fixed - now check if moving prior to trying to heal by applying Bandage

change- reorganized global class config setting categorizations and provided revised descriptions 


Druid

fixed - Feral - cast of Symbiosis: Feral Spirit

*new* - Feral - cast of Symbiosis: Classh


Mage 

fixed - All - now recognizes Scorch can be cast while moving

*new* - All - supports the Ice Floes talent for casting while moving

fixed - All - support for casting/cancelling Ice Block when Cauterize procs

change- All - support for casting damage absorb/heals when Cauterize procs while Ice Block on cooldown

change- All - Mirror Image no longer cast on cooldown.  Instead saved for AoE, Elites, Bosses, and enemy players

change- Goblin Class - support for Rocket Jump when Blink is on cooldown

fixed - Fire - solo and questing spell priority.  Now more effectively kills mobs casting abilities knowing they won't live long enough for Pyroblast! procs in most cases

change- All - Frostjaw now included for ranged spell interrupt


Priest

*new* - All - support for Rocket Jump for Goblins as a disengage

*new* - Shadow - support for kiting with Angelic Feather / Body and Soul in battlegrounds.  Setting added to disable


Shaman

fixed - Resto - no longer casts Earth Shield spam in Battlegrounds.  I was not able to duplicate this issue report, but believe the issue to be resolved with change made.  Shaman should now only cast Earth Shield on self in battlegrounds.

*new* - Resto - Healing Surge % is now a higher amount by default, then when you train Greater Healing Wave is automatically prioritized down to 21% one time.




--- Release 3.0.0.1916 ---

General


Druid

*new* - Balance - support for Wild Charge (Moonkin Disengage).  Will attempt to slow/stun mob before hitting the eject button.  Option in settings to disable if needed

*new* - Balance - support for kiting.  Option in settings to disable if needed

*new* - Balance - improved support for crowd control including use of Cyclone, Entanbling Roots, Mass Entanglement, Ursol's Vortex, Mighty Bash

change- Balance - Starfall now enabled by default.  Previous default was from when Starfall hit targets you weren't already in combat with

fixed - Balance - if numbr of mobs drops below AoE worth priority and mushrooms are left they are detonated

change- Balance - in normal context (solo), starfall reserve for enemy players or tougher mobs

fixed - All - wrong spell reported as being gained after Symbiosis cast for Druids in most cases


Warlock

*new* - Demonology - added cast of Unbound Will in loss of control behavior

*new* - Demonology - added support for Warlock Disengage (Demonic Leap).  Option in settings to disable

change- Demonology - in Normal (solo) context will no longer cast Doom on enemy (they are dying too quick) unless mob is elite, an enemy player, or predicted to live more than 30 seconds.  



--- Release 3.0.0.1903 ---

General

fixed - issue impacting classes which use DoTs for damage.  was causing them to refresh immediately so character would spend time primarily dotting same enemy over and over.  did not affect all classes but did detect on Affliction Warlocks and likely to have impacted Shadow Priests as well

change- will prevent HonorBuddy from mounting during Battleground Prep phase until last 5 seconds.  



Death Knight

fixed - Blood - Raise Ally ability did not check user setting for this spec

fixed - Blood - Death Strike cast on cooldown now for active mitigation.  no longer needs the 5 second rule

fixed - Blood - was not checking if AOE disabled before casting Blood Boil

change- Blood - added Horn of Winter cast at lowest priority for RP generation

change- Blood - changed Taunt logic to cast ranged damage abilities if Dark Command and Death Grip are on cooldown

change- Blood - revised checks for use of Blood Boil in spreading and refreshing diseases.

fixed - All - recognizes Glyph of Pestilence to increase range


Druid

*new* - Balance - will Cyclone enemy if in need of a heal.  will spam heals until reaching 90% or cyclone breaks

*new* - Balance - Normal context (solo) Pull specific behavior added.  Will now cast an instant spell if there is another player within 40yds of target since you will be competing for mobs. Otherwise, will cast a bigger hitting spell to maximize damage without instant agro.  

*new* - Balance - Normal context (solo) added cast of Faerie Swarm (talent) if target is moving and more than 20yds away

fixed - Balance - DoT clipping in Normal context in AoE situations

fixed - Balance - Battleground support for Solar Beam - fixed issue with Ursol's Vortex / Entangling Roots not being cast to root in beam

*new* - Balance - Battleground and Instance - will now cast Astral Communion to enter an eclipse state when no enemies nearby or near end of battleground prep state

*new* - All - will cast Entangling Roots on adds that are out of range and do not have DoTs if in Normal form, Moonkin form, or have Predatory Swiftness

*new* - All - log shows what spell is gained via Symbiosis


Paladin 

change- Prot - minor revisions to priorities 

change- Prot - will cast range damage abilities on taunt target if Reckoning on cooldown




--- Release 3.0.0.1887 ---

General

change- party/raid outside of Instances will now use Solo behaviors unless a Tank has been defined.  This must either be a character with the Tank Role set

fixed - unable to load behaviors problems.  occurs when context (Solo, Battlegrounds, Instance) cannot be determined (memory read error, severe lag in load screen, etc.) and Bot allows CC to have control.  Will now load a do nothing behavior and wait for a stable state. also cached current state while loading behaviors to ensure a complete and consistent set are loaded.

change- message at startup and change of context will indicate type of behaviors loaded

fixed - interrupt support for all classes

fixed - Party Buffs - should be cast only towards end of Battleground preparation phase

fixed - Double Cast prevention logic to include cast target as part of the key so it did not prevent quickly speading DoTs to multiple targets (Priests, Warlocks)

change- improved support for recognizing buffs that allow casting while moving

fixed - pending spell recognition (spell on cursor after failed attempt to cast on target/ground)

fixed - CastOnGround exception for casts made with no enemies in range


Death Knight

fixed - Blood - now correctly checks current target for facing and line of sight prior to Death Siphon and Death Strike.  Previously was check wrong unit resulting in missed opportunities for these abilities in certain cases


Druid

fixed - All - support for Druids using spells gained by Symbiosis

*new* - Balance - support for Cyclone against players if our health is dropping and they are casting or in melee range

*new* - Balance - in Battlegrounds, will now cast Ursol's Vortext / Entangling roots prior to Solar Beam

change- Balance - in Battlegrounds, will cast Faerie Fire on all rogues / feral druids in range.  at lowest priority, will cast on any raid member target missing the weakened armor debuff, then any enemy target missing it

change- Balance - Battleground priority changed to apply spread pressure.  will DoT everything, Starsurge on Shooting Star procs, and cast Wrath/Starfire as appropriate only if not being targeted (to reduce spell lock)


Mage

change- All - Ice Barrier now only cast prior to Pull or in Combat

fixed - All - errant cast of Evocation on cooldown no longer occurs when you have Invocation talent


Paladin

*new* - All - setting to enable cast of Hammer of Justice immediately while solo.  more useful when Fist of Justice talent taken to reduce cooldown and reduce incoming damage


Priest

fixed - Shadow - now correctly re-enters Shadowform in all cases during combat after heal or other ability removes it

change- Shadow - Dispersion now cast when stunned

fixed - Shadow - Self-heal improved and recognizes Glyph of Dark Binding. will buff Prayer of Mending and Renew if equipped and health < 90%  

fixed - Shadow - Self-heal now Desperate Prayer and Power Word: Shield.  

change- Shadow - Flash Heal now cast using Health % from Shadow settings

change- Shadow - Normal (solo) Combat rotation revamped to make use of cooldowns, casting Devouring Plague based upon orbs configured in settings (defaults to 2) and improved AOE

change- Shadow - Battleground Combat changed to apply spread pressue until 3 orbs are built, then focuses burst on current target.  Rotation attempts to reduce number of non-instant casts until spread damage is applied

change- All - does not cast Halo if find any enemy NPCs within 32 yards not already in combat with Priest/group

change- All - use of Angelic Feather should be faster and no longer display message that it may have failed


Shaman

fixed - Resto - Greater Healing Wave now correctly cast

fixed - Resto - Riptide bug when target dies.  Now correctly clears caches heal target info when target dies


Warlock

change - Affliction - Battleground priority change to apply spread pressure (yep, more dots...).  Recognizes Glyph of Siphon Life and prioritizes casts of Corruption.

change - All - added settings for user control of Health Funnel

fixed - Affliction - instant Pet Summon in Combat

fixed - All - Dark Soul now cast in Battlegrounds

fixed - All - support for Grimoire of Service

*new* - All - support for Kil'jaeden's Cunning.  will cast if moving in combat and allow casts to occur if moving and buffed


Warrior

*new* - All - added cast of Enraged Regeneration when stunned and health below 60%

fixed - Fury - cast of selected shout prior to Pull








--- Release 3.0.0.1818 ---

General

change- Temporary Movement Suspend key support temporarily disabled.  Current version of HonorBuddy does not support intercepting Hotkeys that are not in combination with Alt or Shift or Control.  This will be fixed in an upcoming release of HonorBuddy, but until then users attempting to use this feature will receive a message.

change- Hotkeys for toggling AOE, COmbat, and Movement require setting up a key combination that includes Alt or Shift or Control.  users with a hotkey configured that does not have a modifier will cause a message.  This restriction will be removed when addressed in an upcoming HonorBuddy release.

*new* - added Loss of Control behavior. gets control presently when stunned or feared.  prevents failed spell cast spam and enables class specific abilities which can be cast in these circumstances. default also will cast Will of the Forsaken for fear and Every Man for Himself when stunned or feared.  both casts can be disabled by disabling the use of Racial abilities in settings

fixed - Mixed Bot exception occurring when starting HonorBuddy and no Secondary Bot has been configured.

fixed - GlobalCooldown API in HonorBuddy not working which impacts spell priorities in Singular. implemented local until fix in Release version of HB

fixed - during Combat, if a Pet or other object summoned by a Player is targeted, it will switch targets to the Player.  Should work for Pets, Ghouls, and Totems

fixed - exception occurring infrequently when checking shapeshift form for classes that don't support this

*new* - debug statements for troubleshooting Global Cooldown and Casting issues. option is false by default

*new* - select enemies to monitor for Interupting casts. can specify None, CurrentTarget, or All.  will use all abilities in order of max range.  includes spells gained via Symbiosis

change- Ranged DPS should be more predictable in how close they get to enemy when approaching

fixed - Interrupt support fixed

*new* - Interrupt setting and support added to selection monitors current target (only option previously) or all targets in range, or none.  allows use of Symbiosis granted interrupts/silences

change- Pet classes will no longer spam Pet [Attack] messages.

fixed - when targeting a Pet or Minion created by a player, will switch to targeting the player




Death Knight

*new* - All Specs - support for Glyph of Dark Succor added in Normal and PVP contexts. Will cast free Death Strike if healing needed, curren mob will die in less than 7 seconds, or buff expires in less than 3 seconds

*new* - All Specs - support for Raise Ally. setting added to disable allowing manual control

fixed - Frost - spells cast for Frost DK's less than Level 58.  If Obliterate not learned, then will cast other abilities on cooldown.  Previously was only casting to apply buffs so most damage was being attempted via white swings

*new* - Frost - will cast Wild Mushroom: Plague on all targets, but prevented if AOE is disabled

fixed - Unholy - spells cast for Unholy DK's less than Level 58.  If Scourge Strike not learned, then will cast other abilities on cooldown.  Previously was only casting to apply buffs so most damage was being attempted via white swings

*new* - Unholy - will cast Wild Mushroom: Plague on all targets, but prevented if AOE is disabled

change - Unholy - solo (normal) context rotation revised

fixed - Blood - will now cast Plague Strike on cooldown at lowest priority prior to learning Death Strike at Level 56 to improve kill speed.  Previously was not casting an ability consuming Unholy Runes

*new* - Blood - will cast Might of Ursoc using Vampiric Blood setting

change- All Specs - temporarily commented out Gorefirend's Graps (except in Battlegrounds.) will enable in next release with setting controlling


Druid

change- All DPS Specs - if Druid is in Normal form and health < 95% will apply Rejuv.

*new* - All Specs - will cast Barkskin on loss of control

fixed - All Specs - Barkskin tests for health % will use value in settings

change - All Specs - additional checks for enemies nearby are made prior to casting DPS cooldowns to avoid wasting

fixed - Feral/Guardian - will not leave form to heal in combat unless have not learned Predatory Swiftness yet or Bear is not in Tank role.  only spells allowing healing in form used

*new* - All Specs - will cast Symbiosis when entering instance or in battleground once it has started.  targets are selected based upon the spell it gives the Druid presently.  will show which spell was gained

*new* - Feral - when prowling during Pull, will move behind target.  will open with Ravage if behind taraget

*new* - Feral - added diagnostic output enabled when Debug Logging is true.  provides insight into combat scenario important when supporting Feral users


Mage

*new* - All Specs - added loss of control behavior to cast Temporarl Shield when stunned


Monk

*new* - All Specs - added loss of control behavior to cast Dematerialize when stunned or feared

*new* - Windwalker - added support for Bear Hug


Paladin 

fixed - Retribution - debug status info was being added to log too quickly. slowed to once per second

*new* - All Specs - loss of control behavior to cast Hand of Freedom when stunned or feared

fixed - Holy - Judgement no longer cast while in Healing role

*new* - Holy - support for Rebirth (symbiosis).  setting to disable use added in Class Specific settings

*new* - Protection - support for Barkskin (symbiosis).  Cast using Divine Protection Health % and only if DP is on cooldown

*new* - Retribution - support for Wrath (symbiosis).  cast as lowest priority and only when not within melee range


Priest 

*new* - Holy - loss of control behavior added to cast Guardian Spirit when stunned and Glyph of Desperation active

*new* - Disc - loss of control behavior added to cast Pain SUppression when stunned and Glyph of Desperation active

*new* - Shadow - will cast Dispersion if swimming and mana below Minimum Mana % setting

change- Shadow - will re-enter Shadow form more quickly after leaving due to heals, etc.

change- Shadow - added additional buffs/debuffs to diagnostic output to support users


Rogue

*new* - All Specs - added Growl (symbiosis) support in Normal and Battleground contexts if health < 65%.  Not used in instances/raids


Shaman

fixed - Restoration - spamming of alternating Water Shield / Lightning SHield

*new* - All Specs - added loss of control behavior casting tremor if feared.  if stunned, Elementals will cast Thunderstorm and Enhancement cast Shamanistic Rage


Warlock

fixed - All Specs - Mortal Coil now checks prior to cast if target is Undead

change- All Specs - will no longer cast Curse of Elements or Curse of Enfeeblement on mobs 6 levels or more lower than you.  This is geared towards low level farming, gathering, etc 

fixed - Affliction - cast of Soulburn: Health Funnel now suppresses use of Soulburn if Glyph of Health Funnel is equipped

fixed - Demonology - will correctly cast Wrathstorm when Grimoire of Supremecy selected

*new* - All Specs - added support for Rejuvenation (symbiosis) 

fixed - All Specs - will correctly interrupt using Felhound

fixed - Demonology - will cast Soul Fire in Demon form until learning Touch of Chaos at level 25


Warrior

*new* - All Specs - added loss of control behavior to cast Berserker Rage when feared

*new* - Protection - Savage Defense (symbiosis) will be cast using Shield Block Health % in settings and only when shield block is on cooldown



--- Release 3.0.0.1725 ---

General

change- User Interface - configuration form may be left open allowing use of HonorBuddy Stop / Start
without having to close

change- Melee DPS - will now avoid moving to rear of certain bosses with tail sweeps (Ghaz'an, Keristrasza, Cyanigosa, Murozond, etc.)


Death Knight

change- All Specs - Death Grip is not cast in Normal or Battleground contexts if movement is disabled.  This includes temporary movement disable as well as complete movement disable (via toggle or use of LazyRaider, etc.)


Mage

change- Fire - now casts combustion or Inferno Blast if procs are up, otherwise Pyroblast when pulling

fixed - Fire - Normal context cast of Inferno Blast did not check for Fire immune mobs


Monk

change - Brewmaster - fixed exception occurring in checking for need to cast Avert Harm when no group members were within range

change - Windwalker - will wait slightly after casting Roll or FSK before casting Provoke or Crackling Jade Lightning during Pull.  Previously was detecting being outside of melee range and not in combat too quickly

change - Windwalker - added melee abilities to Pull checking for any leftover procs from prior fight


Warlock

fixed - Affliction - no longer casts Agony prior to Soulburn/Soulswap.  

fixed - Affliction - only casts Soulburn/Soulswap if target has none of the associates DoTs active

change- Affliction - Haunt now highest priority DoT if target health < 20%

fixed - Affliction - pending Soulburn when entering Rest is now canceled to avoid accidental Shard usage

fixed - Demonology - Metamorpohsis when entering Rest is now canceled to save Demonic Fury

fixed - All Specs - test for Soul Link aura now delayed after Dismounting to ensure it is restored if already active

fixed - All Specs - Banish crowd control now applied and removed correctly.  was spammed previously in some instances causing it to be applied/removed/applied/...

fixed - Affliction - now correctly casts Soulburn/Drain Life is health < 25% or no healer nearby and < 70%

fixed - Affliction - now check for Glyph of Health Funnel which prevents use of Soulburn: Health Funnel

fixed - Demonology - Felstorm cast for single target so long as AOE spells not disabled


Warrior

fixed - Fury - now correctly casts selected (configured) Shout as lowest priority to generate rage where needed.  previously cast only Battle Shout overwriting user selection







--- Release 3.0.0.1692 ---

General

change- revision to some log output in Debug mode.  Be sure to set Debug Logging to true in Class Config if you are experiencing an issue you would like researched


Mage

fixed - Frost - correctly resummons Water Elemental duing combat if it dies

change- Frost - will not try to build a 3 stack of Frostbolt on mobs expected to die quickly (less than 20 secs) when Solo


Warlock

change- All Specs - will resummon Pet before eating or drinking in case a mob is agroed

fixed - All Specs - keeps Soul Link buff up if talented

fixed - Affliction - if pet dies during combat and soulshards available will do instant pet resummon via Soulburn.  

change- All Specs - resummon during combat is highest priority if it will be instant (due to Demonic Rebirth or Soulburn), otherwise defensive abilities used first

fixed - All Specs - casts Twilight Ward to help mitigate damage inflicted by Soul Link or Dark Regeneration.  also cast if in PVP and being attacked by either a Warlock or Priest

change- All Specs - Dark Bargain health % increased from 30 to 50

fixed - Demonology - SoulFire cast added while in Demon form




--- Release 3.0.0.1670 ---

General

change- names added to log window for spells cast on Pet will have the Pet Owners name as well to differentiate

fixed - target check for no target or dead target while in combat now correctly switches to agro mob.  previously switched to any nearby target in combat


Druid

fixed - Balance - revamped PVP spell priority; fixes issues with refreshing DoTs; refined Typhoon to not cast due to a Ranged class in melee range

change- Balance - PVP spell healing behavior now buffs Rejuvenation early in Combat for improved survivability

fixed - Balance - Instance rotation issue where Singular saw another players Moonfire DoT on target so didn't refresh

fixed - Balance - Instance rotation where DoTs need to be overwritten at beginning of an eclipse was only casting if not present


Mage

fixed - All Specs - Evocation cast was checking for Invocation aura rather than Invoker's Energy

fixed - Fire - Normal Context now correctly casts Frost spells on Fire immune mobs

fixed - Frost - Normal Context now correctly casts Fire spells on Frost immune mobs


Priest

change- Shadow - Normal context correctly casts Vampiric Touch on mobs with more than 10 seconds to live (rather than just elites and bosses.)


Shaman

change - Resto - Normal context (solo) now applies Water Shield if < 15% mana, Earth Shield if Mana % > 30 and Health % < 65, and Lightning Shield if Mana > 30 and Health > 85

change - Resto - Battleground context no longer causes Water Shield / Earth Shield / Water Shield / ... spam

change - Resto - Battleground context now applies Earth Shield to self if mana > 25%, or Water Shield if Mana % < 15

change - Resto - Instance context now only apply Earth Shield to a non-Tank if in combat even when Tank goes out of range


Warlock 

fixed - All Specs - Health Funnel now correctly cancels cast if pet health gets topped off early

fixed - Demonology - Hand of Gul'dan is now correctly cast. 

change- Demonology - Class Config settings added to allow specify the Fury % to enter Demon form and the Fury % to leave Demon form


Warrior

change- All Specs - will cast Victory Rush / Impending Victory only when there will be no overheal, the Victorius aura will expire, or the current target has less than 7 seconds to death (which should refresh the aura)

*new* - All Specs - setting to use Victory Rush / Impending Victory on cooldown (for those that don't care about overhealing and just want it cast)





--- Release 3.0.0.1640 ---

General

change- revision to Dismount behavior output additional state information when debug mode is on

fixed - exception occurring to some melee classes when moving behind current target for attack

change- valid targets check now factors in threat 


Mage

fixed - All Specs - issues with spell priority and aura recognition for Normal and Instance contexts

*new* - All Specs - interrupt support (Counterspell)

*new* - All Specs - support for Spellsteal with settings to control


Rogue 

fixed - All Specs - exception sometimes occurring when selecting Tricks of the Trade target

change- Subtlelty - changes to Instance rotation increasing Fan of Knives count, Preparation requirements

fixed - All Specs - movement behind fixed target while stealthed that sometimes left Rogue out of range and standing still


Shaman

change- All Specs - Ghost Wolf is no longer cast if the Bot has not set a POI indicating where it is going.  This will greatly reduce the number of casts occurring while Questing

fixed - Resto - reference to current tank to stay in range of sometimes threw error


Warlock

change- Affliction - now casts Soulburn prior to Drain Life if health < 75%

change- All Specs - added support for Soul Link during rest

change- All Specs - now does not cast Fear if targeting Undead

change- All Specs - some refinement to Health FUnnel




--- Release 3.0.0.1603 ---

General

fixed - issue with canceled casts due to move.  this was a biproduct of allowing cast of spell to begin during latency window at end of current spell cast (also referred to as fast casting, allowing for lag, queueing spells, etc.)  this was most noticeable at the start of rest for classes that heal before eating/drinking as well as at times when mounting.

fixed - cast on location/ground spells were at times leaving spell pending on cursor when target was out of range, dead, etc

fixed - was inadvertenly cancelling First Aid cast after 6 seconds.  Now correctly waits 8 secondds for Bandages to apply

fixed - obscure Ranged class movement issue which was causing Healers and Ranged DPS to sometimes stand in place.  This was most noticeable when questing and character would not chase a fleeing mob and in instances where healer would not move towards a tank requiring healing that was just out of range

change- refactored Cast and Heal composites to single Cast composite.  this will effect any derivate works which use the Heal composite

change- replaced use of optional boolean parameter to indicate allowLagTolerance now uses LagTolerance enum

*new* - Temporary Suspend Movement ability now detects if you are typing into chat window or other frame and ignores temporary movement hotkey presses (which are typically letters)


Death Knight

fixed - All Specs - issues where combat buffs/self-heals  were applied late or not at all


Druid

*new* - Feral - recognizes shapeshift errors that occur while Questing.  Will leave form and suppress going back in form for 60 seconds.  This allows questing profiles which retry to use quest items or perform actions which fail while in shapeshift form to succeed with no special coding.

fixed - All Specs - Innervate of self now shows correct message in log file

change - Feral - will additionally cast Berserk when not in instance and target either expected to live 20 seconds or multiple targets

fixed - Feral - AOE range check changed to account for hitbox size

fixed - All Specs - Rejuvenation should now renew more quickly when falling off


Hunter 

fixed - All Specs - Readiness now correctly cast when Rapid Fire buff has expired and is on cooldown


Mage

fixed - All Specs - Flamestrike now correctly cast on ground rather than leaving as pending spell on cursor

*new* - All Specs - rework of logic for Normal and Instance contexts; PVP is unchanged and will be revamped for next release

*new* - All Specs - setting and support for Time Warp

fixed - Frost - Water Elemental Freeze spell no longer leaves pending spell on cursor


Priest

fixed - Shadow - addition of AoE recognition and spell priorities including use of Mind Sear when appropriate (spammed for 5+ mobs, filler spell when 2+)

change- Shadow - Dispersion now cast for AOE in addition to health % and mana % checks


Rogue

*new* - All Specs - user setting and support for Pick Pocket as part of opener sequence

*new* - All Specs - user setting and support for Pick Lock on lockboxes in bags and opening during Rest

change- All Specs - Feint removed for this release; will be added back in upcoming release

fixed - All Specs - Redirect was incorrectly being cast on self

fixed - All Specs - Apply Poisons was sometimes casting same poison a second time


Shaman

change- Resto - Earth Shield now cast more quickly when it expires.  More fault tolerant selection of Earth Shield target

fixed - Resto - Instances: now moves within Healing range of Tank if no group members need heals.  will not move towards DPS target and will only cast damage spells (like LIghtning Bolt for Telluric Currents) if target already in range

fixed - Resto - Instances/Battlegrounds: was only casting Riptide if glyphed or to buff Tidal Waves.  Now will roll on lowest health % group member without buff if no higher priority heal needed.  This should help tank and group survival when healing at level 25 or lower.  Prior to learning Earth Shield, will favor Tank regardless of group health %


Warlock

fixed - All Specs - Shadowfury now correctly cast on location rather than left on cursor as pending spell


--- Release 3.0.0.1547 ---

General

fixed - Behavior Creation: re-creates Behaviors for Bots that do not reinitialize Combat Routines when entering/leaving instances (historically a BotBase responsibility.)  For example, a Frost DK player using RaidBot to for a raid presses Start button before entering the instance.  This causes Solo behaviors to load (and loads Grinding/Questing behaviors which use Death Grip.)  Since the BotBase did not reinitialize the Combat Routine, the Frost DK would cast Death Grip in a raid.  A Frost DK is used as an example -- this applies to all classes.

change- Pull Buffs: some BotBases (Grinding/Questing for example) are not calling the Pull Buff behavior.  Temporary work around for Singular to call this behavior.  Classes that used this behavior and were impacted included Rogues (all) and Monks (Mistweaver).

fixed - Class Specific Settings: now only loads/creates the settings file specific for your class.

fixed - Rest: Undead Cannibalize racial now correctly cast and canceled

fixed - Cast On Ground spells: additional logic added to cancel a pending spell on cursor if click appears to have failed and logging to catching info regarding failure

fixed - Check for units that are crowd controlled now includes Fleeing mobs (Fear)

fixed - Shadowmeld Racial: changed to cast only in groups, when not tank and have agro, or in pvp being attacked by ranged class


Druid

added - Balance/Feral/Guardian - support for Dream of Cenarius.  If in group, heals will be cast on nearby player with lowest health %

fixed - All Specs - heal after Nature's Swiftness was sometimes cast too quickly causing Druid to leave form.  Now waits for Nature's Swiftness aura to be applied

fixed - Feral/Guardian - bug during Rest occurring when no drinks available and Druid is in Normal form.  No longer waits in place for regeneration of Mana.  

change- Balance/Feral/Guardian - will now only leave form to cast Healing Touch if Health % is less than Mininum Health % in General settings.  If already in Normal form will continue to heal until topped off

added - Feral - Rest: will cast Savage Roar combo pts remain and it results in a longer buff than currently applied in attempt to get use from points that would otherwise be lost

change- Feral - Rest: will cast Prowl while drinking/eating (same behavior as Rogue)

added - Feral - Rest: will cast Healing Touch if Predatory Swiftness aura still active and health less than 95% or Dream of Cenarius not active (if talented)

fixed - Feral - Wild Charge: only cast if class specific movement spells enabled

added - Feral - Dash: cast if Prowling and more than 15 yds away from target during pull and Wild Charge on cooldown

change- Feral - Cat Form: correctly enters Cat Form more quickly if left during Rest, Quest Objective, etc.

change- Settings - some unnused settings removed


Hunter

fixed - All Specs - should no longer cast multiple traps prior to Disengage

fixed - All Specs - should no longer cast multiple traps on same add


Monk

fixed - Brewmaster - Power Guard aura corrected to check only for existence and not stacks

fixed - All Specs - movement to chi/life/health spheres controlled correctly controlled by class specific

fixed - All Specs - Roll: was being cast at times when class specific movement was disabled

fixed - Mistweaver - Stance: changed to stay in Wise Serpent if in group.  when solo, will use Fierce Tiger for DPS

fixed - Mistweaver - Stance: forces Wise Serpent for all healing


Paladin

fixed - Retribution - AOE (Normal and Instance): was not casting Divine Storm as frequently as required

change- Retribution - Instance Spell Priority: revised to match Elitist Jerks


Rogue

fixed - All Specs - issue preventing Gouge/Blind prior to bandaging in combat


Shaman

fixed - Elemental/Enhancement - issue preventing self-healing during Combat fixed

fixed - Elemental - Earthquake now has a range check which should eliminate occurrences of a pendig spell remaining on cursor

fixed - Elemental/Enhancement - Off Healing support: was including Unleash Weapon as heal spell.  even though it was not being cast, it was misleading seeing it included in the list of available heal spells

fixed - All Specs - Tremor Totem is now correctly cast when 



--- Release 3.0.0.1496 ---

General

change- Behavior Selection: these were previously using the Normal (solo) behaviors which was causing unexpected use of cooldowns, etc. (including Death Grip.)  Changed to use Instance behaviors.

change- Behavior Selection: will now always use Instance behaviors when you are in a group.  This represents a change for those Grinding/Questing in groups or doing other World group activities that don't require entering an instance

fixed - Behavior Selection: previously depended upon the BotBase you are using to reinitialize the Combat Routine whenever your Context changed (entering/leaving a Battleground, Instance, Raid, etc.)  This caused a problem for users raiding with RaidBot that would press Start before entering the instance

fixed - Disable Movement: issue causing Follow Leader movement in LazyRaider to be disabled

fixed - Disable Movement: problem with movement being disabled if local computer time rolled back to point before HonorBuddy was started

fixed - Bandages: problem where sometimes recognized an item in bags as a bandage after all bandages were used

change- Targeting: now outputs unique message anytime Singular changes the current target, indicating why it did

change- Spell Cast Messages: when a cast made by Spell ID Singular will now output the spell name rather than the id

change- Spell Failed/Missed Messages: previously disabled if in Raid or Battleground, but will now be enabled for those Contexts if you have Debug enabled.  Please set to 'true' if generating a log file for an issue

fixed - Evade Mob Handling: exception occurring for melee characters if swing missed evade bugged mob

fixed - added check for Great White Plainshawk as transport to allow combat during quest on vehicle


Death Knight

change- All Specs - slight change to Death Grip to initiate attack quicker after target enters melee range

change- All Specs - Chains of Ice now used primarily to prevent targets from running away



Druid 

fixed - Feral - problem with Feral Druid thrash being cast on cooldown rather than to refresh debuff

fixed - Feral - casting Wild Charge without Prowl


Hunter

*new* - All Specs - "Crowd Ctrl Focus Unit" setting allowing chain crowd control of only target user sets as Focus 

change- All Specs - improved crowd control usage in PVP

fixed - All Specs - Hunters Mark spam due to target being arcane immune

fixed - All Specs - isssues with casting traps 

fixed - All Specs - issue with exception or wrong target name output for trap casts

fixed - All Specs - added recognition of adds already crowd controlled to avoid wasting traps


Paladin

fixed - Ret/Prot - problem with failed casts of precombat buff Righteous Fury

fixed - Ret/Prot - problem with seal twisting in low mana conditions

*new* - All Specs - support for use of Repentence for add control while solo

fixed - Retribution - self-healing during combat 

fixed - Retribution - restored use of Lay on Hands

fixed - Retribution - self-heal logic prior to eating/drinking while out of combat

fixed - Retribution - added AOE support.  

fixed - Retribution - fixed rotations for all contexts

*new* - Retribution - added support for all talents

change- All Specs - removed Repentence from use as an interrupt


Rogue

*new* - All Specs - all support rewritten - combat spec tested thoroughly; Assassination and Subtlelty partially tested

change- All Specs - Recuperate now cast regardless of health % if combo points on dead target will be lost if Redirect has not been learned

fixed - All Specs - poisons support reworked.  note:  poisons are not applied during combat, but will be applied out of combat if missing or less than 20 minutes remaining

*new* - All Specs - poison selection settings support AUto to choose typically best poisions based upon those available to character and current context

*new* - All Specs - poisons correctly applied if you change contexts (and auto selection determines different poison is better) or poison selection in settings


Warrior

change- Arms - Recklessness will additionally be cast on cooldown if T14 4PC DPS Bonus is active

change- Fury - Recklessness will additionally be cast on cooldown if T14 4PC DPS Bonus is active

change- Prot - Recklessness, Skull Banner, and Avatar all cast on cooldown if target is boss, player (pvp), or solo and aoe count 3 or more



--- Release 3.0.0.1446 ---

Hunter 

change - All Specs - Stampede now cast anytime under a Bloodlust-like effect, if solo and 3 or more enemies, or if current target is an enemy player

fixed - All Specs - Readiness no longer cast immediately after Rapid Fire.  Also if BM Hunter checks that Bestial Wrath is on cooldown as well.

fixed - All Specs - Hunter will attempt to Revive Pet if no pet exists.  if that fails will Cal Pet


Monk 

*new* - Windwalker - fixed cast of Xuen

*new* - All Specs - added cast of Disable on hostile player that does not have a speed redux debuff already

fixed - Windwalker - allow both Legends buffs to be cast


Rogue 

*new* - All Specs - added stun and bandage for all specs if Health < 15%. Must have Use Bandages option enabled and trained First Aid

*new* - All Specs - added use of Recuperate in Combat.  Recuperate Health % setting in Class Specific tab is initially 0 and controls if this ability used.


Warrior

change- Arms - no longer uses Cleave in AoE situation, only used Heroic Strike as needed

fixed- Arms - recognition of Taste for Blood aura

change- Arms - Heroic Strike Rage dump threshhold lowered from 90% to 85%

change- Protection - restored Avatar use for Boss only

change- Protection - Bloodbath cast on cooldown

change- Protection - Glyph of Incite handling

change- Protection - disable AoE if current target is a player


--- Release 3.0.0.1425 ---

General

*new* - Singular Hotkey Support.  See the new Hotkeys tab in the Class Config window.  Provides support for turning on/off AOE Usage, Movement, and Combat.  Some classes may not fully recognize the AOE toggle, so please carefully report any occurrences in Singular thread.

*new* - Temporarily Suspend Movement.  Setup keys matching your WOW Movement keys so attempts to manually move or assist your botted character in WOW while it is stuck, completing a quest objective, etc. will temporarily disable all automatic movement for 3 seconds (configurable) from the last key you press.  This setting is turned off by default, but can be enabled with one setting change if you are using the default WOW keyboard mappings for movement keys

fixed - false file modification error when Singular bundled with HonorBuddy.  You will not notice this change until the next release of HonorBuddy after .520

fixed - Line of Sight error.  In some rare instances, HonorBuddy will detect a mob is in Line of Sight, while in WOW they are not. 

fixed - Melee classes moving too close to mobs.  

fixed - Evade bugged mob support.  Should be properly recognized and no longer retarget 

fixed - Missing "Cast ssssss on Nnnnnnnn" log messages.  Duplicate line suppression was added to the HonorBuddy Log window, so if a spell/ability was cast 3 times in a row it would appear to the user it was cast only once.  Singular now works around this making sure every line output is unique

fixed - Targeting in all classes.  Should no longer target or consider mobs that were created by or summoned by another unit (includes totems, bloodworms, etc.)  This will not prevent Bot from targeting these as it deems necessary, but Singular will no longer seek them out

fixed - commented out conflicting version number.  Any extraneous version # reported by HonorBuddy for Singular should be 0.0.0.0

change- display a notice at Start if the Pull Distance is set to less than 25 yards.  Some Questing Profiles set the Pull Distance to extremely low values temporarily.  These short pull distances can cause unexpected results which is often incorrectly attributed to the Combat Routine, so while not an error condition the notice attempts to make you aware.

change- now recognizes LazyRaider and Raid Bot as manual movement bots and will automatically disable Singular movement if Disable Movement set to Auto

change- Combat Log Events now captured for Raids and Battlegrounds if Debug is enabled.  Combat Log filter is more constrained and only allows receipt of events associated with spells initiated by the player.


Death Knight

*new* - All Specs - setting and support for Path of Frost.


Druid 

fixed - All Specs - corrected use of Hibernate.  Now only cast if it won't cause you to leave form -or- you are already in Caster form.  Will only attempt to Hibernate a mob that is at least 10 yds away from you and your Current Target


Hunter 

fixed - Marksman - overhaul of spell priority for all contexts

fixed - Survival - overhaul of spell priority for all contexts

fixed - Beast Mastery - overhaul of PVP rotation

fixed - Beast Mastery - correctly uses Steady Shot for focus generation until Cobra Shot is learned at 81

change- All Specs - Hunter's Mark no longer cast if Glyph of Marked for Death equipped.  

change- All Specs - Hunter's Mark no longer cast in PVP unless fighting a single enemy away so no target switching likely

fixed - All Specs - improved standard handling of buffs and cooldowns

change- All Specs - Misdirection not cast in Battlegrounds.  Use is not an issue as it is not on the GCD and causes no adverse effects, but removed as its not needed and was being perceived as a problem by some users.

*new* - All Specs - Feign Death support while Solo.  will wait a maximum of 10 seconds for 25 yd area to be clear of hostiles

*new* - All Specs - Feign Death support in PVP.  Will cast to peel of Pets.  Cancels after random wait of 0 to 2 seconds

*new* - All Specs - Use Feign Death setting in Class Specific tab of Class Config

*new* - All Specs - Deterrence cast if low health or 3 or more mobs and Glyph of Mirrored Blades equipped

*new* - All Specs - Widow Venom now supported in PVP.  Setting to use added in Class Specific tab of Class Config and defaults to false.

fixed - All Specs - Blink Strike now correctly cast on current target

fixed - All Specs - Lynx Rush now cast only if you have a live Pet

change- All Specs - additional debug logging added to Call Pet support.  If you encounter an issue, be sure to enable Debug Logging and recreate the issue to submit in forum so sufficient detail is present

*new* - All Specs - Disengage: will attempt to cast a slow or stun on nearby enemy.  Abilities attempted in order are: Ice Trap, Snake Trap (w/ Glyph of Entrapment), Explosive Trap (w/Glyph of Explosive Trap), Freezing Trap (w/Glyph of Freezing Trap), Binding Shot, concussive Shot, and Scatter Shot

change- All Specs - Disengage: in PVP will only attempt to Disengage from melee classes

change- All Specs - Disengage: in Normal context will only attempt Disengage if fighting a group representing more than 4 times Hunters max health or Hunters is less than 40%

change- All Specs - Disengage: correctly factors in Glyph of Disengage when looking for safe landing area

change- All Specs - Interrupts: in Battlegrounds will cast Silencing/Scatter/Concussive shot or use Quaking Palm, Arcane Torrent, or War Stomp on any nearby enemy currently facing (if needed) that is casting rather than only current target


Monk

fixed - Mistweaver - exception occurring for some users

*new* - Windwalker - after consuming Afterlife Spheres, if health still needed at rest will cast Healing Sphere onself.  Setting added named RestHealingSphereHealth to control the minimum health that a Healing Sphere will be used (since at some point you are better off consuming food.)

*new* - Brewmaster - after consuming Afterlife Spheres, if health still needed at rest will cast Healing Sphere onself.  Setting added named RestHealingSphereHealth to control the minimum health that a Healing Sphere will be used (since at some point you are better off consuming food.)



Shaman

*new* - All Specs - support for Hex in Normal and Battleground contexts.  Will Hex an enemy that is not the current target and 10 yds or more away from you and the current target and not already crowd controlled

*new* - All Specs - support for Bind Elemental in Normal contexts.  Will Bind an enemy Elemental that is not the current target and 10 yds or more away from you and the current target and not already crowd controlled

change- Elemental - suppresses use of Chain Lightning if a Crowd Controlled enemy is within range of hop

change- Enhancement - suppresses use of Chain Lightning if a Crowd Controlled enemy is within range of hop

fixed - Restoration - was not waiting for completion of spells prior to beginning casts in some circumstances.  This resulted in odd spell priority at times

fixed - All Specs - totems now correctly cast in Battlegrounds and Instances

fixed - All Specs - need for Tremor Totem now correctly recognized.

*new* - All Specs - Windwalk Totem now cast if no existing Air Totem and Shaman becomes rooted or snared


Warlock

fixed - Affliction - monitoring of Malefic Grasp channel in progress.  Now upon need to switch to Drain Soul correctly waits until cancel complete before resuming initiating next cast

change- Affliction - additional Drain Soul check while Soloing.  If you have no shards and enemy (non-player, non-elite) at very low health, will ignore whether DoTs are present and cast Drain Soul.  This is to maximize the opportunity for full replenishment of shards on mobs death.

fixed - Affliction - wasted cast of Soulburn at mob death.  Singular was detecting point DoTs were removed from enemy at death but before they were identified as dead.  This resulted in perceived need to refresh all DoTs.  

*new* - Demonology - support for Demonic Rebirth

*new* - All Specs - support for Banish.  Will Banish an enemy that is not the current target and 10 yds or more away from you and the current target and not already crowd controlled.  Will remove Banish when the Banished mob becomes the current target

fixed - All Specs - Summon Doomguard correctly casts on Current Target.  Only cast if current target is a Boss and have Bloodlust

change- All Specs - Grimoire of Service now also cast if 3 or more mobs attacking

fixed - Demonology - corrected cast/removal of Metamophosis buff occurring at some times

*new* - Demonology - AoE support added.  Note: will only Hellfire for 4 or more mobs and while Metamorphosis active currently

fixed - Demonology - on initial Pull, will correctly enter Metamophosis, cast Doom, then exit if Demonic Fury is less than 800

fixed - Demonology - correctly keeps Metamopohisis buff at low Demonic Fury levels if Dark Soul: Knowledge is active


Warrior

change- Protection - made Ultimatum procs a high priority.  This should increase the number of Heroic Strike/Cleave casts occuring



--- Release 3.0.0.1319 ---

General

fixed - movement bug for melee classes


--- Release 3.0.0.1314 ---

General

fixed - Removed wanding check in WaitForCast.  this appeared to detected autoattack at times and interfere with some classes casting


Hunter

change- Recognizes Glyph of Marked for Death being equipped and suppresses casting of Hunter's Mark to save a GCD


Warlock

fixed - All Specs - bug in summoning pet affecting all users

*new* - Demonology - initial implementation.  Does not support AoE presently, but resolved key with switching into and out of Metamorphosis and some oddnes with spell names.  Should work well for running solo bots at high levels, but additional testing for leveling warlocks plus AoE support still needed.  



--- Release 3.0.0.1301 ---

General

change- movement for some ranged classes to smooth out approach during odd pull distances

fixed - exception occurring infrequently as current target dies


Shaman

fixed - Elemental - shield flipping when off-healing is configured

fixed - Enhancement - shield flipping when configured for off-healing

change- Restoration - when solo should now always use Lightning Shield and Flametongue Imbue


Warlock

fixed - All Specs - bug impacting Summon Pet for non-English clients

fixed - Affliction - exception occurring when channeling a spell (like Health Funnel) and no current target set

change- All Specs - reordering of some talents/buffs to improve healing in combat

change- All Specs - more conservative use of Fear if enabled



--- Release 3.0.0.1287 ---

General

fixed - movement issue for some ranged classes periodically running to melee range before attacking.  Note, some Quest profiles change the Pull Distance to force that behavior, so please check before posting any issues with your ranged toon doing this.



Hunter

change- All Specs - Hunters have a new class specific option Allow Kiting, which defaults to false.

fixed - All Specs - Trap errors occuring on non-English clients



Shaman

*new* - Elemental - support for Hex / Bind Elemental on adds out of AoE range of current target

fixed - Enhancement - Feral Spirit correctly recognizes setting in Battlegrounds and Instances

change- All Specs - will Lust in Normal Context if not in group and in a stressful combat situation

change- All Specs - Ascendance cast in Normal Context if in stressful combat situation

change- All Specs - Ancestral Guidance if health less than 60% in a stressful combat situation


--- Release 3.0.0.1271 ---

General

fixed - character name output in log when debug mode enabled and spell cast fails

fixed - incorrect version number was being reported when passing integrity check

*new* - Singular debug output now enabled either by toggling Singular setting or HonorBuddy Log Level


Hunter

fixed - All Specs - now correctly casts buffs. also casts short duration cooldowns more frequently.

fixed - Beast Master - Focus Fire now restricted to 5 stacks of Frenzy.  Stacks are kept until Beastial Wrath not active

fixed - Beast Master - Beastial Wrath saved until Kill Command not on cooldown to maximize opportunity to cast twice while buff active

fixed - All Specs - Mend Pet during rest invoked before sitting to eat


Shaman

change- Resto - will cast Lightning Shield when not in a group or no living group members nearby



--- Release 3.0.0.1256 ---

General 

fixed - issue affecting many specs in Singular (Guardian Druid, Retribution Paladin, and Resto Shaman were among those reported.)  The Predicted Health Percent function which factors in incoming heals uses offsets which have changed with WOW 5.1.  Method for healing temporarily changed to actual Health Percent until offsets are updated, which will fix all exceptions reported where log files were provided

fixed - Version information and integrity check no longer uses a file which HonorBuddy during its build and packagine process.  Users doing a new install should no longer see the "pink" message

change- debug mode will append unique numbers to the end of target name to uniquely identify mobs having the same name.  Only occurs when debug mode enabled

change- debug mode for Singular can be activated either by setting Singular setting to true or HonorBuddy Log Level setting to Verbose or Diagnostic



--- Release 3.0.0.1230 ---

General

change- additional current target info if Singular debugging enabled

fixed - line of sight issue fixed.  HonorBuddy sometimes reports mob is in line of sight while WOW client indicates that it is not.  If detects that a spell failed for line of sight reasons, will move towards the current target for brief period attempting to get into line of sight

fixed - infrequent move to melee problem (all melee specs) should no longer cause character to stop barely out of range of mobs hovering off ground

*new* - Worgen's will use Dark Flight to buff running speed while not mounted if Use Racials setting is true


Death Knight

change- Frost - revision of Normal and Instance spell priorities to align with Elitist Jerks, including improved AoE

change- Frost - disease application now prioritizes abilities that don't require runes (Unholy Blight, ) over those that do

change- Frost - addition of keeping Necrotic Strike buff on in PVP


Druid 

change- Guardian - revised rotation to better match Icy Veins, with the exception of AoE which favors quick Berserk and Mangle spam.

change- All Specs - Renewal Health setting changed to 35 (was 70)

change- Guardian - Frenzied Regeneration Health setting changed to 40 (was 70)

change- Guardian - Savage Defense Health setting changed to 20 (was 35)

change- Guardian - Barkskin Health setting changed to 50 (was 80)



Hunter

change- All Specs - Aspect of the Fox removed for WOW Patch 5.1

*new* - All Specs - addition of smart Disengage, which finds a safe landing spot and rotates to aim for it.  Disengage usage remains disabled by default

fixed - Beast Master - now includes Cobra Shot in rotation

fixed - All Specs - casts Mend Pet during Rest

fixed - All Specs - localization error for all traps, preventing use of traps on non-english clients

change- All Specs - Pet Slot string setting changed to Pet Number integer setting (only accepts numbers)


Mage

fixed - All Specs - changed so Ice Barrier buff uptime is 100% 


Monk

change- All Specs - Tiger Power buff no longer stacks for WWOW Patch 5.1

change- All Specs - Healing Sphere energy required reduced to 40

change- All Specs - Tiger Power now renewed when less than 3 seconds remaining


Paladin

fixed - All Specs - bug occuring when high level Paladin selects Seal of Command as active seal


Shaman

change- Lowbie - now correctly heals at 35% (down from 60%)

change- Lowbie - now moves to within 25 yds of mob on PUll (up from 20)

chagne- Restoration - fix to maintain Tidal Waves via Riptide


Warlock

fixed - All Specs - now Health Funnels as needed during rest.  

*new* - All Specs - support for user configurable use of Soulstone ability.  May now be used as traditional Soulstone or battle rez.  See Warlock Settings for available options



--- Release 3.0.0.1175 ---

GENERAL

- Singular files are now integrity checked for user modification. To receive support, a complete log file is required so we have the version and settings information needed to assist you.

- support for Soulstone ressurection by all classes, and ankh by Shaman

- support for Lifeblood added for all classes

- fix for ranged class movement

- minor targeting fix to assist tank rather than target it

- change to recognize both tagged mobs and those targeting character as being in combat

- Singular debug output will now write spell cast failures reported by WoW to Log window rather than just log file.


DEATH KNIGHT

*new* - All Specs - added "Use Raise Ally" setting to allow control over automatic or user controlled battle rez

change- All Specs - normal and battleground Pull uses Outbreak at highest priority


DRUID

fixed - Feral - will force Cat Form prior to casting Wild Charge

*new* - Feral - added AoE attack sequence


MAGE

change- Frost - in Instances, will resummon Water Elemental if it is more than 40 yards away

change- Frost - Instance spell priority revised


MONK

change- Mistweaver - enable Solo combat to allow use of Mixed bot

fixed - Mistweaver - corrected bug that created issues at times with channeled spells for /use: items at times

*new* - Mistweaver - support for Mana Tea and Fortifying Brew

*new* - Windwalker - support for Leg Sweep


PRIEST

*new* - All Specs - will buff speed for non-combat movement on foot if Angelic Feathers or Body and Soul talents are taken.  See Priest option "Use Speed Buff"

fixed - Discipline - now supports solo combat allowing use of Mixed bot.  

fixed - Holy - now supports solo combat allowing use of Mixed bot.

*new* - Holy - supports switching to Chakra: Chastise for DPS and Chakra: Sanctuary for Healing.  Will revised in upcoming release to allow user selection of healing Chakra

fixed - Shadow - now supports improved healing before drinking/eating at Rest 

fixed - Shadow - improved self-healing while grinding and in battlegrounds

change- Shadow - Normal rotation now more aware of fast dying mobs.  Also 

change- Shadow - Normal rotation now recognizes Glyph of Mind Spike along with minor changes to adjust to mobs dying fast

*new* - Shadow - Instance rotation has improved AoE support along with rolling DoTs and support for Halo


SHAMAN

*new* - All Specs - added Use Ghost Wolf setting to control Singulars use of that spell.

*new* - All Specs - if running on foot, will cast Ghost Wolf unless Use Ghost Wolf setting is false.

*new* - Enhancement - setting Off-Heal Allowed added. When true, Shaman will off-heal if a group member falls below 30% or the healer dies

*new* - Elemental - setting Off-Heal Allowed added. When true, Shaman will off-heal if a group member falls below 30% or the healer dies

*new* - All Specs - setting "Use Bloodlust" to control casting during solo, battleground, and dungeon play.  Bloodlust never cast if movement is disabled (since user is there and should cast manually.)

*new* - Elemental - setting to enable AOE rotation (defaults to true.)  Allows you to disable for an encounter you want to restrict spell selection to single target only.

*new* - All Specs - support for Astral Shift 

*new* - Elemental - improved support for self-healing when solo or battlegrounds

*new* - Enhancement - improved support for self-healing when solo or battlegrounds

*new* - All Specs - Earth Elemental now correctly cast in Instances when tank dies

*new* - Elemental - support for Elemental Blast and Unleashed Fury talents

*new* - Enhancement - support for Elemental Blast and Unleashed Fury talents

*new* - Enhancement - improved recognition and use of Maelstrom Procs



WARLOCK

*new* - Affliction - complete rewrite.  Supports solo, battleground, and group play with all abilities.  PVP specific logic not added yet

*new* - Destruction - complete rewrite.  Supports solo, battleground, and group play with all abilities.  PVP specific logic not added yet

*new* - All Specs - setting "Use Fear" allows you to disable the use of Fear 



WARRIOR

fixed - All Specs - Victory Rush spam corrected

*new* - Arms - support for Hamstring and Piercing Howl on players

fixed - Arms - addition of missing Cleave cast

fixed - All Specs - now correctly calculates AoE situations with multiple mobs having large hitboxes

fixed - Fury - only cast Raging Blow if current target within melee range

fixed - Protection - only cast Demoralizing Shout if mobs within 10yds

*new* - Proteciton - support for Hamstring and Piercing Howl on players



--- Release 3.0.0.1085 ---

General

fixed - aerial target detection

fixed - exception occurring with failed spell casts when Singular Debug Logging enabled

fixed - exception sometimes impacting all classes spell priorities (rotations)


Death Knight

Blood - change - Death Grip in instances saved for use as taunt if needed; no longer cast on Pull

Blood - fixed - Death Grip cast on current target instead of taunt target during combat if taunt needed

Blood - fixed - taunts are throttled, so should no longer cast Death Grip followed by Dark Command on same target


Druid

Feral - fixed - detection of targets above the ground.  

Feral - new - support for Wild Charge


Hunter

General - fixed - no longer casts Mend Pet if alive pet not present

General - fixed - Misdirection pre-buffing only done immediately prior to pull as opposed to keeping buff up during rest


Mage

Arcane - fixed - issue with cast of Arcane Blast during Pull

Arcane - change - change to priority of Evocation. now cast if mana < 30% or glyphed and health < 50%

Arcane - fixed - Mana Shield now only cast if Health < 75% and Mana < 30%

Arcane - new - Ice Barrier cast if health < 99%

Arcane - change - Mirror Image only cast if 3 or more enemies targeting mage and/or pet

Arcane - new - Incanter's Ward cast if current target within 6 yds


Monk

Windwalker - fixed - Grapple Weapon attempted a maximum of once per Pull, eliminating potential for spam if target cannot be disarmed


Paladin

All Specs - new - Seal setting; supports None (for manual control), Auto (for best choice given spec and environment), or specific Seals


Warrior

Arms - fixed - Charge and Heroic Leap casting

Arms - fixed - Recklessness and Dragon Roar no longer cast only on boss or wasted at range

Arms - fixed - Bloodbath only cast on bosses

Arms - fixed - Dragon Roar no longer cast only on boss or wasted at range

Protection - fixed - Charge and Heroic Leap casting

Protection - fixed - several exception interfering with rotation

Protection - fixed - Bloodbath only cast on bosses

Protection - fixed - Dragon Roar no longer at range


--- Release 3.0.0.1057 ---

General

Version # - the version number for Singular will be updated with each release.  Please be sure to provide a log file with any problem or question you have.

Log Window - reduced message output at startup.  if viewing the selected behavior names is necessary enable Debug Logging in Singular.

Log File - additional info (stats, glyphs, fps, latency, etc.) written to log file only to provide additional detail for Support of users providing a log file.

Healing - added support for using Bandages during Rest if first aid trained and some are in inventory.  Setting 'Use Bandages' controls this and defaults to false.  this was added to reduce downtime while levelling.  support for In-Combat use of bandages will be looked at in the future

Boss List - dynamically detects Bosses (previously were maintained in a list, requiring updates for new content.)


Druid 

Balance - changed group Innervate to support party as well (not just raids)

Balance - added AoE rotation with Mushroom Detonate, Force of Nature, Starfall, and DoTs

Balance - added Celestial Alignment and Incarnation

Feral - several fixes to spell priority, including intermittent Savage Roar spam

All - should heal without leaving form unless cooldowns exhausted and no other option, in which case will use Disorienting Roar, Might of Ursoc, and Barkskin before healing.  Additionally will consolidate Rejuv and Healing Touch use in that case

All - Healing touch should no longer cancel eating/drinking while Resting


Hunter

Lowbie - removed pet attack; control over pet isn't available till 10 and no longer a lowbie

All - support for Misdirection to pet while not in a group, or if in group and no living tank within 100yds


Mage

Arcane - Pull issues resolved


Monk 

All - added settings for controlling Life/Chi sphere pickup

All - fixed zig-zag issue occurring with conflict in movement when looting and moving to sphere at same time

Windwalker - added support for Flying Serpent Kick (if glyphed) and Chi Wave

Windwalker - monitor Fists of Fury and cancel cast if targets dead or out of melee range

Windwalker - fixed cast of Fists of Fury when target outside of melee range

Windwalker - added Expel Harm into spell priority for Chi generation and in fight healing.  previously only used at point health was low

Windwalker - added PvP support with Paralysis, multi-target interrupts, and Touch of Karma

Windwalker - added in Combat consumption of spheres

Windwalker - Roll should be more directionally accurate


All - fixed issue of moving to spheres when disable movement setting is active


Rogue

All - fixed issue with Leeching Poison causing to apply/spam Mindnumbing



Shaman

Elemental - added intelligent auto select of Pull spell priority, favoring an instant cast if in an area with other players or target is already within 12 yds



Warlock

Lowbie - removed pet attack; control over pet isn't available till 10 and no longer a lowbie



Warrior

Arms - rewrite of Arms completed.  should use all abilities needed for soloing and group play. 

Arms - recognizes the Shout setting selection

Protection - rewrite of Protection completed.  should use all abilities needed for soloing and group play including correctly using survival cooldowns based upon settings

Settings - Stance now allows choosing a stance or selecting Auto (allowing to automatically choose the best one based on your spec.)

Settings - redundant Shout settings removed



